you get no countdown you get no
countdown at all when you do this just
you guys know
so the first five to ten seconds are
almost guaranteed to be awkward
so i want to come on and make a video
about a topic i think i've talked about
in many different videos but i maybe
never made
one video bringing all of the pieces
together and maybe
people in the audience will pop in and
join me and give me some
unexpected questions some some
unexpected uh
distraction from my own focused
monologue on topic
so talking about political change how to
pursue it
cultural change how to accomplish it
right and
there's a broad theoretical question
here it gets
very narrow and various very specific
very quickly why because
you know you can talk about the pursuit
of political change
when you are running a multi-million
dollar
organization a huge budget huge number
of insurance and supporters
right you talk about the pursuit of
political change when you are a
completely powerless
isolated individual and you may not even
have charisma
on your side you may have no social
media followers you may have nobody who
follows you trust you
uh in real life you may be despised
within your
own society people may be racist against
you and your own society
you may not have a station or level of
respectability or whatever you know
there may be myriad reasons why
in your own society you are really
genuinely
a voiceless powerless person now
you know think about voltaire
so voltaire was handsome and witty
and charming and born rich and how do
you change the world
he wrote books he wrote books and
interestingly one of the most powerful
things he did
was making the sitting room of his
mansion by today's standards it's not
that big a house but at that time was
considered a castle
he had a salon he had a room where he
accepted guests
and to my knowledge every day i believe
seven days a week
he received guests and spoke to them
face-to-face people would line up
people would make a pilgrimage to go and
speak to the great man
and many of the most important things he
accomplished politically
just came from people coming to talk to
him face to face with him making the
time formally
he had a secretary he would write down
people's names okay you know voltaire
receives guests
a certain this is not conventional
activism it's not conventional protest
or
radicalism voltaire really changed the
world and all the
conventional radicals and
revolutionaries you're talking about
almost all of them failed so there's
something to learn from here now
i like to start these discussions with
examples that are very palpable
they're very real life and real world
so i'm going to talk about elitism
briefly in a sense that all of you can
understand
and all of you can relate to elitism
gets
very abstract very quickly for most of
us um
elitism is not a philosophy right this
is something
very palpable it's a face-to-face
reality in the same sense
snobbery is not a philosophy right what
is the philosophy of the snob
go to your library ask for a book i need
a book that will tell me how to be a
snob
i need to understand the essence and the
philosophy of what it is to be a snub
there is no such book there is no such
section in the library
there is no such department at the
university you cannot get a major
in snobbery and yet of course what many
people do learn in university is
precisely snobbery i think that's fair
to say they learn
they may learn nothing else of value
except that'll be a stop
um you can
set up a gym
that is only open to vegans
that can be a form of activism it's just
it's just elitism
let's say you're in could be any city in
the world we take as an example
let's say you're in san francisco and
you set up a very desirable
high-end dining club that is only
open to members and their guests so
this is common for high intentions and
to be a member
you must be vegan all right and this is
no you're not even open to every vegan
you're only open
to certain special people who are
because this is outright
elitism and there's there's word oh gee
you know this is this fabulous
restaurant this fabulous
you know complex you know what you could
have the restaurant you have the gym
upstairs
you can combine these ideas right let's
just say
let's just say you've got tables set out
for people to dine at and there's a
small stage where sometimes
once in a while you have stand-up comedy
events i'm saying stand-up comedy rather
than a rock concert
just because the type of investment type
of seating involved is very different
a dinner club a high-end dinner club can
double as a
venue for stand-up comedy maybe for a
small jazz quartet or something too
right
you start doing these kind of gigs maybe
on those nights
you know when you have a and you book by
the way i'm not talking about booking
vegan comedians
you book the biggest acts you can
mainstream community you become a known
destination as a high-end dinner club
for stand-up comedy right
and when people go there they go oh wow
this is nice
this is an exclusive club this is
elitism
oh do you know to be a member of this
club you have to be vegan okay
elitism and explicitly
elite organizations of this kind have
influenced the transformation of
societies including the united states of
america from its founding
all right right after the american
revolution was done
there were immediately elitist snobbish
organizations founded for the veterans
of the revolution for members of the
officers corps
and there were actually political
protests against them because people
said we do not want to live through
the creation of a new aristocracy and
that was what they saw
with these gentlemen's clubs so one of
the most elite
of these gentlemen's clubs so it was a
gentleman's club only for people who had
been officers
in the revolution people been on the
right side of the war so to speak and it
would probably members of the right
social class
to begin with to be an officer rather
than a normal member of the infantry
or what have you you know they very
successfully lobbied
uh the government during the
negotiations
in philadelphia right the negotiations
that would write
the constitution they simply had dinner
parties
down the street and they wielded a lot
of influence okay
all right so this is this is elitism all
right and what
voltaire did also kind of elitism
although it's a kind of
elitism that uh you know anyone who's
had a hit book
could participate there's a kind of
power here and it's not power lurking in
the shadows
why do i mention this why do i talk
about these palpable
attainable real world examples of what
it is to influence people what it is to
guide
cultural and political change it's
because
you may think of this kind of elitism as
a special privilege we have this word
privilege
you may think oh these are things that
only the strongest among us
you know these are tools these are
weapons
only the strongest among us can ever
wield
and you're wrong these are the weapons
of the weak right
voltaire you know from his uh
from his castle you know what i mean
voltaire inviting dinner guests
to sit and hear him lecture and writing
his books and writing his poems and
writing his
opinion pieces in the newspaper writing
letters to the editor
right this is not a position of power
this is not
a position of strength most of the
fantasies
about how to accomplish social and
political change
for both the left wing and the right
wing the conservatives and the rednecks
are really just as bad
most of them are fantasies concerning
mass organizations making use of
violence
that that's a privilege of a few
how many people in the whole history of
the world have ever been in a position
to command an army you know to really to
command you know huge numbers of
followers
to to move crowds in that way right
to give commands and have them tear down
the palace or tear down the parliament
to enforce their will against the
government now also whenever you read
about
the real history of real revolutions
unlike the ideologies unlike the
propaganda unlike what's said about
revolutions
after all the broken glass has been
swept away most of what we call
revolutions
in reality we're more like a military
coup d'etat because who are the people
who are the people who have guns it's
very easy well the people had an
uprising to change the government
almost every single time when you look
into it actually the crucial question
was about
which units of the army broke away from
their commanders and turned against the
old government or started to support the
new government
actually what you're talking about are
not hippies in the streets
holding you know placards or something
it's not the flower children playing the
guitar
and asking the government to change it
comes down to nasty
violent military struggle that's
normally the reality of whatever this
includes
you know the french revolution's plural
when and what happens step by step
if you're not reading propaganda about
it you're going to see that
the crucial question at every stage has
to do with the military
so look if you're talking about theories
of how to accomplish political change
theories of how to accomplish cultural
change
well do you want to theorize about
circumstances that don't apply to you
in your life like do you want to start
on a chalkboard
drawing a great big circle and learning
from all kinds of examples in the
history of the world that don't apply to
you
or do you want to start like do you want
to work from the particular
circumstances you're in and then draw
the circle outward you know
okay so it seems like i have only this
tiny range of options right now
there's so little i can do to influence
the world or accomplish or contribute to
political and social change
and now let's expand it a bit right
look the haitian revolution the
revolution that took place
in haiti so this is an historical
series of events that has fascinated me
since about the year 2001.
this is now 20 years i've known about
and read about and done research on it
i don't tell the whole story about how i
first did research on it i did a
research project on it
back in about 2001. at that time it was
an incredibly obscure
uh topic in the history of the world
since then several movies have made
about it it's talked about on youtube
several books have been published
um
so the haitian revolution has become
less obscure
there is no analysis i can give you for
the haitian revolution
that will have anything to do with what
you can accomplish in the pursuit of
a vegan future as people want to say and
look i just gotta sketch veganism is
only one political issue i care about
i care about so many political issues i
care about
police reform i care about police
brutality i care about justice i care
about the working
of the courts of law right and you know
when you talk to the police and when you
talk to lawyers and so on
the main thing you hear again and again
is we can't do anything about it we
can't help you
now i could give a bunch of examples
here but including my experience with
the other youtuber durianrider that i
talked about lately
you know he threatened to kill me and we
had proof of that he threatened to have
me beaten up he threatened real violence
against me
and i'm going through this with my
lawyer and the first thing he says no no
no but none of that
none of that will stick in court you
know the only charge we could go after
him on was defamation which he was also
guilty of
remember the beginning of like what is
this you know like yeah the defamation
is bad
but why is it that's the only crime he's
guilty of here life is
full of these things i i've it's been
more than seven years for me to get
divorced
even the divorce system doesn't work i
mean there's so many things anyone i'm
sorry
if you're a teenager watching this you
don't know you get out you have some
real experience in the real world and
you see
that the system is broken and this is
not
a problem just the united states of
america this is not a problem just with
canada
i am going to make here the vague
menacing insinuation that this is
actually
a global phenomenon this is part of the
breakdown of a concept of social and
cultural order
that goes back to the roman empire and
it really doesn't work anymore
i i know this is a stretch but this is
my field
okay i would say that the same legal
system
that began in rome today
doesn't work in america it doesn't work
in england
it doesn't work in italy it doesn't work
in spain
okay and it doesn't work in asian
countries
like japan and singapore that imitate
our legal system our justice system you
know i really am saying
this is kind of a global phenomenon of
this system not
working anymore now you could get into a
separate question of well when did it
work
that's a great question and maybe the
answer is never i'm just i'm not going
to get into it but i don't i don't have
some kind of golden age thinking like oh
back in the 1930s nobody had any problem
yet nobody had any cameras and then i
thought nobody had video cameras in
their pocket to record what the police
were doing to people in the 1930s i
don't you know i don't engage in this
kind of golden age
uh thinking but we are living through
the obsolescence of a justice system
okay i care about that passionately and
i'm deeply concerned about it all right
and part of my interest in the black
lives matter phenomenon blm
was that this was giving us a kind of
test case
it was giving us a kind of opportunity
to
challenge and overturn the assumptions
of that centuries-long tradition
of how our society is ordered of how our
society is governed
right of what is justice of what is the
role and responsibility of the police
stone and so forth right like there were
really basic fundamental questions
raised by the death of a series
of black men and women in the united
states of america and by the way if you
watch
my channel i'm no fool i actually did
research on these cases
in many cases the mainstream media lied
about what happened and the police
actually did nothing wrong
but still those cases raised these
important questions stand by that
even the cases where the police actually
did nothing wrong
but they were perceived to have done
something wrong those
those still raise these important
questions so an extreme case that's been
uh
covered on my channel was althea brown
right who claimed
she had a fantasy or a delusion she had
some kind of
we assume it was out of insanity and not
out of intentional lying but she
reported the police
that a group of white racists spray her
with what's the term um lighter fluid
spread her with some kind of barbecue
ignition fluid
and lit her on fire well what do you
know every single thing about this
story was a lie and it was proven there
was videotape evidence there was
physical evidence
everything about this it was either a
fantasy or paranoid
but even a case like that where the
police did nothing wrong and
there were no white people who attacked
her no none of it happened
with videotape of evidence that every
minute that she passed through
every intersection on on our way and so
it's complete
fraud complete canard nevertheless you
can look at this and say
there's evidence here of how the system
doesn't work now again i'm not trying to
expand the scope of this video
infinitely but you may or may not
already know about me
i feel likewise that the system of
university education we have
in the west which interestingly doesn't
begin with the roman empire it begins
with the dark ages
our system of university education
originates in
monasteries in the catholic christian
dark ages that is the origin and great
centers of learning
in the dark angels included toledo right
so the the monastic universities of
toledo and these were you know these
were imitated elsewhere across europe
and so
so that in terms of where that tradition
comes from but guess what
it's been imitated everywhere
the university system in communist china
the university system in democratic
capitalist japan
the university system around a huge part
of the world
all of it to an appalling extent is a
second-rate imitation of what's already
a bad
system whether you're looking at england
or the united states
so there were a lot of things there were
a lot of big fundamental
political questions on which i am a
dissident in which i'm totally
dissatisfied with what's going on in
western democracy
now i don't fit into any camp i don't
fit into the left-wing camp i don't fit
into the right-wing camp
you know bernie sanders supporters think
i'm right-wing
i assume trump supporters think i'm
left-wing you know what i mean there's
no
there's no simple solution for me right
question is what do you do with your own
life in the pursuit of
political and cultural change now
there is inspiration for this video is
in part my ongoing
clash of swords with the youtuber known
as cranky vegan
right i don't have to get into it
personally with him because it's not a
personal matter
right but cranky vegan asked me
repeatedly
and it really wasn't clear to me this
was a sincere question when he was first
asking
but he asked me repeatedly well what is
your theory of social change what is
your theory in the pursuit of political
and cultural change and from my
perspective what do you mean haven't i
made
15 20 videos talking about that don't
you already know
what i have to say about that
um so to me this is part of what made it
kind of perplexing astounding
and i asked one of my fans and i have i
have made videos uh
uh tell you about that um
and he followed this up by saying and
what are you doing
in your own life in the pursuit of that
whatever your theory may be of how to
achieve uh political culture
so i mean i i can start there rather
than starting on the the
grander sphere of how in history
political change is accomplished but
when we talk about me
right inevitably we lower our standards
we lower our expectations because we're
talking about one man
hi ron shout out to everyone in the
audience shout out to ron sims shout out
to freda shout out to nacho too
obsidian um
we're talking about one man with no
budget
with ten thousand subscribers on youtube
with very limited power through limited
right okay um
many people are shocked when i say
openly
that black lives matter has been a
failure that it's a negative example
okay i am recording this on june
4th 2021
black lives matter was founded in the
year 2013.
we are talking about more than
seven years
what history have you studied whether
it's the history of
the haitian revolution or the american
revolution or the french revolution
whether it is the history of as i've
said many many times
the abolition of alcohol in the united
states i think it was the 15th amendment
sort of getting the number wrong
the the amendment to the constitution
that made alcohol
illegal um any example the history of
women getting the vote history of
fascism communism the rise of democracy
in different
places around the world democracy as
communism fell apart in eastern europe a
great example is
democracy in mongolia
used to be a communist country they had
a very rapid dramatic transition from
communism
to democracy like if you
think that what black lives matter
accomplished
in seven years
with millions of dollars in backing
and millions of newspaper articles
millions of tv stories millions of radio
stories
seen and heard and read by hundreds of
millions of people it would not be an
understanding to say billions of people
right if you think that what they did
with all that money
and all that public interest and all
that support in the last seven years
if you think that is a success let me
ask you
what what is a failure what are your
standards for a failure
democracy in myanmar it's a failure
right we can say it's 21.
if you gave that money to the
pro-democracy forces in myanmar
do you think it would be a failure do
you think nothing would change
in seven years if we try to estimate or
add up the budget
and some of it's public some of it's not
but just the corporate donations
that were given to black lives matter
and we take that and we hand it over
to a burmese democratic radical front
the people are going to fight and die to
have elections and freedom of speech
freedom of press and so on that the
rights and liberties people take for
granted in western europe
if you hand that money over to pro
democracy force in myanmar
do you think nothing is going to change
in seven years and most of these
successful examples of dramatic change
that happen without any of this kind of
press coverage support donations so on
and so forth
whether we're talking about voltaire
voltaire sitting there is enough
he seems pretty small and powerless and
penniless even
compared to the phenomenon we're talking
about with black lives matter
or indeed if we're talking about the
pro-democracy forces
in mongolia that managed to change you
know the history of their country
managed to change the
the fate of that whole part of the world
and if you think that wasn't a hard
struggle
you may think of mongolia as being in
the middle of nowhere
it's not they were directly
in between russia
and china and both russia and china
were using all their might to control
the future and the political destiny of
that country both russia and china to
give a
palpable example wanted to control the
railway system within mongolia they
still do they were deeply involved in
life and business in mongolia to that
extent there was an ongoing competition
for russia and between russia and china
for who could control the fate of
mongolia the most that's basically been
their political situation for
the last 100 years or more roughly you
know it's
the story of mongolia in modern times is
being a place equidistant
in between uh russia and china
so there were powerful forces working
against
their transition to democracy and there
was also
a sense of self-preservation and
self-defense from the elites
in that country who have been attached
to the congress so let's again this is a
contrast
to blm it's a contrast to veganism it's
a contrast to whatever example you want
to use
there were people still alive in
mongolia that time
who were responsible for massacres
they were responsible for hunting down
and killing people
in the name of communism and they knew
correctly accurately that if the
transition to democracy
happened they would be put in prison or
they would be executed
they knew one way or another there would
be a trial or maybe people just killed
in the streets
there was a whole generation all the
wealthiest all the most powerful people
in that country had blood on their hands
from what it took to create and
sustain the communist government that
they had and they knew
if this falls this if this is replaced
with democracy
it was over for them that this would
change their lives directly so they were
fighting as hard as they could
guess what guys i've i've written
articles about this before
didn't it didn't even take seven years
it was
almost instantaneous the transition to
democracy
okay
wrote a new constitution mongolia
changed its fate forever and and let me
ask you
let me ask you whether you were talking
about
pot-smoking hippies who support and
sympathize with the veganism
or you were talking about african
americans
dissatisfied with police brutality
okay do you think mongolians
really have any advantages in terms of
level of education level of wealth
level of organization like this is
pre-internet guys like think about the
resources they had
at their disposal in mongolia as
communism is falling apart
and transitioning in russia and china to
the north and south of them
right they made a change because they
wanted it
all right they did what it took to
change the fate
of their country okay and they did not
have the leaders of the
pro-democracy forces in mongolia did not
have then and don't have they
never had the level even of journalism
you know journalistic support coverage
in the process you look at
did the new york was the new york times
following with wrapped interests
the political transformation of mongolia
they did not have the phenomena
of financial support or public interest
or anything else
that black lives matter has had okay
so look if you're talking about police
brutality
i care if you're talking about police
reform
fundamental reform to the justice system
fundamental reform to how a country is
governed
and how people are arrested and how
what police responsibilities are and how
crimes are tried
i i'm passionate about that and a
passion for that to improve
everyone's life not just black people's
lives white people's lives and
all kinds of people's lives are going to
be improved if you fundamentally
challenge and fundamentally
reform the system how much positive
progress towards that goal
has black lives matter made in my
opinion zero
and if you think it is slightly more
than zero because it can only be
slightly more
then you have to compare that to the
harm done
the harm is very real okay the damage
done
is very real and there's this strange
game going on
especially amongst vegan activists of
imagining that any time you get your
name into the
newspapers anytime you get press
coverage
that it's a good and wonderful thing
that it's built in the future of the
movement
that it's a great success and it may be
a success for your fundraising and they
don't even care
if the press coverage is negative if the
press coverage is saying
what these vegan activists are doing is
bad and evil and wrong they don't even
care what they're doing is building up
more public resentment
more hostility more skepticism if
they're undermining their own
credibility
if they're destroying their constituency
and the potential for actually
accomplishing
real change um
it's in that sense that people imagine
black lives matter is a success all
right
because the culture of clout chasing
the culture of fame whoring
has become so prevalent the
instagramification of life
has become so profoundly influential
that people think people imagine that no
matter what you're doing
as long as it's getting you more clicks
on facebook as long as it's getting you
more hearts
on instagram as long as it's getting you
more likes more attention they don't
even care if it's good attention or bad
attention
that if you are getting newspaper
headlines if you are getting notoriety
or fame
then you're making progress
and you're not newspaper headlines are
not fame
newspaper headlines are not progress
okay change is change change is what
happened
in mongolia after communism fell and
replaced the communist government with a
new constitution
and a new government change is what
happened in france
in 1789 when they started with a blank
sheet of paper and started writing a
completely new
legal code that code wasn't finished by
the way until napoleon was in power
it took a long time to actually write a
whole new legal code but they
wrote a new constitution they took away
the powers of the church they took away
the powers the
aristocracy they fundamentally changed
everything and guess what
seven years is a long time
in the history of the french revolution
in the history of the american religion
the history of the mongolian revolution
seven
years is enough it's been long enough
for us to judge i started this video by
saying i was going to talk about
my theory of political change my theory
of culture change and how it applies to
you as the individual positively because
it's not that useful to draw a huge
circle
where we're talking about the revolution
in haiti and we can draw conclusions
about that but it has no relevance to
your life and your situation
as an individual now part of cranky
vegan's complaint against me is that he
says that most of what i hear
surprised me most of what he hears from
me most of what he hears me talk about
it's posed in the form of a critique
where i'm saying what's wrong and what
doesn't work as opposed to
positively what my model for change is
all right
i've got to tell you something it's for
a reason guys
it's not accidental i think that's the
main thing that's going to interest you
you know as individuals yes i think it's
the main way i have even to reach up to
him
i'm trying to relate to a guy when i
talk to cranky vegan
i'm i'm trying to relate to a guy who's
still endorsing disruption i've made so
many videos
criticizing cross-examining this concept
of disruption of the pursuit of cultural
change political change social change
through disruption and saying it just
doesn't work now i'm not going to
recapitulate that here but this for
those who already know
my other videos this will you know
remind you what i would say about that
if you believe that this kind of
disruption gets results
then you must believe that the
anti-abortion activists
are the most effective activists in the
history of the united states of america
you must believe that the anti-abortion
movement has been tremendously
successful and of course they must
always be more successful than veganism
because they have a much larger
constituency they have much larger
financial support they have
much more people who are interested
there they have millions of people who
are passionately
religiously committed to the
anti-abortion cause
and guess what it doesn't work it's a
total failure
why by what metric i've put this chart
up
on screen before just look at the number
of abortions
there's a lot of latin words in here the
number of abortions
per capita per annum
okay so these are latin terms meaning
how many abortions are people choosing
to get
per person per year brief pause
we're now more than 30 minutes into the
live stream we have 26 people in the
audience
and only 15 thumbs up i understand if
you're sitting on the fence if you're
not sure whether or not this video needs
a thumbs up or thumbs down
i understand but i'm just saying it
would be better for the video it would
be better for us to reach more people
while i'm live streaming right now
it will reach a larger audience if more
people hit the thumbs up if we got
26 people in the audience and all 26 of
you give a thumbs up
it does actually help me i know this
video there was no advanced warning
i just hit record and went so i know the
the audience consists of people
who just happen to be online or happen
to be washing the dishes
and want to listen in the background i
didn't post this on my instagram i
didn't post this on patreon
i didn't post this anywhere i just hit
play and let's go there was no advance
point on youtube
thank you guys a whole bunch of people
just hit the thumbs up i know you don't
remember it so that's why i'm reminding
you
but as spontaneous as this may be i
think you will agree it'd be great if
more people
would join the audience it'll be great
if after this is supposed to also be
great if you can reach
a larger audience these are very
meaningful questions
for a small number of people that's what
a lot of my content is like you know
uh it's it's deeply meaningful to a
narrow audience
as opposed to being only a little bit
interestingly a little bit meaningful to
a mass audience
that's the kind of content i create uh
generally speaking
on my youtube channel where were we
um all right so when i'm speaking to
someone like cranky vegan
you know i'm hearing him passionately
propound
this model of disruption and i'm able to
say back
look disruption in the specific model of
disruption
you are endorsing right now let's be
clear what does disruption mean
it definitely does include things
like blocking a road so that no traffic
can pass on the road that is disruption
it's a form of disruption he has
endorsed
recently okay it definitely does include
things
like disrupting a restaurant or a
grocery store
right so i endorse none of this he
endorses all of it and we could go
through a whole bunch more examples
so you know what disruption now one
challenge to this is ethically and
philosophically
oh well okay how would you feel if it
were muslim fundamentalists using the
same tactics
what if it's muslim fundamentalists
shutting down the road
and stopping all traffic stopping all
economic activities in both ways
he justified this or praised it lately
when it was used to
very temporarily shut down some
mcdonald's restaurants in england
that they didn't have enough meat
because vegan activists shut off some
roads which is how the meat
was transported to these mcdonald's
restaurants he's a big fan of this he
endorses this
okay oh okay what if it's not somebody
who's on your side
do you think this is a civil right
muslim fundamentalists should have
because muslim fundamentals they would
they would be very interested in doing
this they might be interested in showing
that they object to
the government being at war in
afghanistan and they want to shut down
all kinds of businesses that are there's
can have a pro-muslim anti-war movement
of this kind
so is this a tactic that's acceptable
for everyone or only political movements
you you sympathize with right your
enemies can use this and they can use it
against you
how much easier is it for the pro meat
people to shut down all the vegan
restaurants this way
i really think about this guys i used to
have before i had a youtube channel
i had a vegan blog and any time
the pro meet people started attacking my
blog
wow the number of people i know some of
you may not know what i mean by pro-me
people the people who wanted to
actively attack and denounce vegans and
defend
and promote eating beef basically always
seemed to be
beef they weren't enthusiastic about not
chicken or fish or something
but anyway those people they would
outnumber the vegans
ten thousand to one you'd get all this
like activism from the pro media
guess what they can shut down your vegan
restaurant it's way easier for them to
shut down a vegan restaurant they
outnumber you
they have money they have the money they
have the numbers they have the passion
they have conviction
there are more people who hate veganism
than who support it and they're also
willing to block roads they're also
going to engage in
disruption now you know there's an
infamous youtube channel
spherage and he has actually done
vegan-style
disruptions of vegan restaurants he's
done pro-meat
protests in vegan restaurants and it's
horrible and it's just
awful what it's like for the people in
the room it's horrible
well guess what when vegans do that to
me it's horrible do you
approve this no um
i think it's natural whether i'm
reaching out to an anonymous
audience in general not that you lovely
people are anonymous frida ronald
whatever
you know whether i'm speaking to an
artist's channel or i'm reaching out to
one specific person like cranky vegan i
think it's natural that the segway to
talking positively about what kind of
methods i think work
what we should do in the pursuit of
change right
it is natural that we are going to get
there through a critique of what
doesn't work okay so i've already said
giving
millions of dollars to black lives
matter doesn't work
it's ended in failure giving millions of
dollars to peta
people for the ethical treatment of
animals over many decades
doesn't work it's ended in failure and i
can talk about the metric in just a
moment right
i have criticized specific groups on
this channel that you may not have heard
of
they're not as famous as peta but that
have a multi-million dollar
per annum budget right so give an
example
i think i only made one youtube videos
out of them pro veg
international proved international
is headed by a horrible person named
tobias leonard
tobias leonard if you want to talk about
vegans who are more hated by other
vegans than i
am tobias leonard is one of the most
hated
vegans in the world so he is one of the
spokespeople for
um pro veg international proved
international
more than one million dollars a year
sorry i've forgotten the exact figure
but i think they're into the multiple
millions per annum um
when you are looking at a multi-million
dollar institution
over many years and looking what they
have accomplished or what they haven't
accomplished
and what the outcomes are that is
something very different
from looking at me or you as an
individual
you know who is powerless and perhaps
voiceless the only voice i have is to
reach my
10 000 subscribers or what have you what
you can do what standards we're going to
do
to evaluate that so i think it's natural
i think it's natural that we make the
segway
from this kind of critique now when i
ask cranky begin about this
and i think when i ask the audience too
when i ask
does this look like a good use of 3.5
million dollars
some particular organization so by the
way whether we're talking about direct
action everywhere
multi-million dollar per annum
organization by the way why do i keep
saying this latin term per annum
because the point is not they had three
three million dollars once
right or one million once the point is
you're getting a million dollars
year after year after year after year
you keep having
more than a million dollars a year
coming in in income so that each year
you can be spending this money and have
more money coming in
it's a lot of money you know it's a lot
of a lot of throughput
you're if you show it's a sinking budget
of a million dollars that's very
different from like if your grandfather
dies and leaves you one million dollars
but it's only gonna happen once
he's not gonna die again next year he's
like okay i got this one million dollars
gotta make last
no these are these are multi-million
dollar
per annum organizations right
but if i say to cranky vegan or if i say
to any of you now okay here's an example
and they have 3.5 million
a year does are they getting 3.5 million
dollars
worth of results of outcomes of change
is this making the change
politically whenever i talk they say no
they say no they
know there's nothing to show for or like
what there is to show it's so trivial
as i said earlier with black lives
matter all right either you're going to
come to
the conclusion this is a total failure
this is that zero positive outcomes
or you're gonna say okay it's slightly
more than zero there's a very
modest positive outcome but then just do
the math
just add up how many millions of dollars
how many millions of people
right and in a sense how many millions
of hours
of effort or work by those millions of
people for this very very modest
positive outcome and as i said with
black lives matter we also have to
question with these vegan organizations
okay so if you've got a little bar there
for the positive outcomes how big
how big is the bar for the negative
outcomes because they do damage too
they do harm like what what little
they're accomplishing positively
has to be seen in a context of very real
harm so if you guys didn't know
like you know black lives matter burned
down several city blocks
they did engage in looting people were
killed most of the people killed were
other black people
at the protests i'm not saying zero
white people go but i read
in detail really horrifying accounts i
thought boy on my channel there was a
woman
she was driving her kid i think she was
driving her kid back from a birthday
party at a friend's house
something completely mundane and sabrina
she's black her kid's black there are
these protesters by the wendy's who are
blocking the road and not letting anyone
pass
so again this actually comes back to the
same they were standing there with guns
saying that they would block anyone they
prevent any traffic from passing that
intersection so do you believe this is a
moral form of protest
i don't this woman comes up and she's
got her kid in the back seat
i figure she has one kid or two in the
backseat sorry some details i'm
forgetting but anyway and and she melts
off this guy and says hey look why are
you
blocking the road i've got to drive she
was either driving home or driving a kid
in the friends but i think he was
driving home
i got to drive my kid i'm doing whatever
you know
black lives matter fine but why why are
you screwing up my life this way
okay and they shot a bunch of bullets at
the car and people died
okay this is the kind of thing that came
up there was damage done there was harm
done tremendous harm that'll last
forever and you know burning down
cities burning down shop there's real
damage there's real damage done by vegan
activism
and i'm saying the benefits or the
positive accomplishments
it's either unreal it's either ac it's
either zero
or it's very close to zero very modest
very minor so okay
just say this is the framing this is the
context
within which we have to talk about the
pursuit of political change then which
we have to talk about
the pursuit of cultural change it's a
context within which there are no
easy answers but we can establish
the easy questions we can say look
dr greger on youtube multi-million
per annum budget direct action
everywhere
multi-million per annum budget anonymous
for the voiceless
multi-million annum multi-million dollar
brand and budget
peta it's only go download and look at
the numbers for peta now how much money
they get and how much money this number
here it's mind-blowing
multi-million dollar prime budget and
guess what none of it works
none of it and there's a very simple
metric trick
in the same way that i've discussed in
depth and past the metric for
how many abortions people get per year
ultimately
what all this protestings about all this
so-called disruption is about is a
personal choice
it comes down to you you and you and you
and you as a million
points a light a million individuals you
have to make the decision to do the
right thing
just because it's the right thing to do
it's like sobriety you have to be
committed
i'm not gonna smoke cigarettes i'm not
gonna drink alcohol i'm not gonna do
drugs
it's on me it doesn't matter what
political movement you signed up to
doesn't matter who you vote for
ultimately it's your personal
responsibility like sobriety to say
i'm gonna walk this line i'm gonna take
on this burden because it's the right
thing to do i'm gonna refuse to eat meat
okay asking a woman
to refuse to get an abortion when she
has an accidental
pregnancy has an unbelievable sacrifice
and you can google it right now or you
can look it up on youtube and there are
thousands of women who are proud
and they're going to boast you that they
did the right thing either because they
believe in jesus
they believe that both there are
thousands and thousands of women
who will say this but holy [ __ ] to raise
the child of a man you don't love
of a man you don't like of a man you
might have had a one-night stand with of
a man you might not even remember
having sex with you might have gotten
drunk and had a one-night stand and you
don't really know that guy
and now you're pregnant and you want
this woman on a matter of principle that
you're preaching
whether they're christian or not in the
states most of them are christian but
there are some people who are secular
and anti-abortion vegan gains
number one youtube psychopath vegan
gains is an atheist
but he's morally opposed to abortion so
you know there are people who
who are committed to that perspective
you are asking
this woman to spend the next 20 years
raising the child of a man she doesn't
love or doesn't like or a pregnancy that
was just unwanted
that was in the wrong time in her life
you know it's she just isn't settled
down doesn't have enough home
doesn't have a job or a home isn't set
up and i'm like you want her
to make that commitment and live with
the consequences for your principles
in the parlance of our times that is a
big ask
that is asking a lot of someone right
but it comes down to a personal choice
and personal responsibility
so when you look at the chart that shows
how many abortions people are actually
getting
per capita per annum that that
is the measure of the failure of the
anti-abortion movement
that is the measure of the failure of
their tactics the same tactics being
used
by vegan activists and when you look at
the chart
that shows how many pounds of meat
everyone is eating per year there are
two charts you can look them both up
right now how many pounds of meat are
being produced
per capita per annum how many pounds of
meat are being
consumed per capita prime you look at
those
you look at those lines and you can see
that all of the tactics used by peta by
direct action everywhere by anonymous
for the voiceless
by dr greger absolutely all of them have
failed
now let me ask you honestly this is
something for you guys to ask yourself
i've already said
i got love for police reform like i got
love
i got love for the fundamental questions
that are being raised by black closure i
just disagree with the organization
i disagree with marxism i disagree with
communism i agree with the answers
they're posing
but like police kill people in the
united states of america
it raises questions and i'm so jazzed
i'm so positive i'm so ready
for people to finally question what is
written in that constitution and ask
can't we do better people the finer look
at the court system
and why it is you have to bankrupt
yourself to have a lawyer to plead your
case why it is oh you better save up all
your money and go into debt
so you don't die because rich people get
away with crimes and poor people
there's so much outrageously wrong about
the constitution about the court system
about the police about the prisons
about every stage of the justice system
i'm not an apologist for
any of it right but black lives matter
is a [ __ ] movement and it's a
failure
and let me ask you
if you give them another seven years
and another 100 million dollars do you
think it'll be a success
do you think that's what's been lacking
the anti-abortion movement if they keep
using the same methods
the same tactics if you give them
another seven years
and another one hundred million dollars
do you think it'll suddenly be a success
do you think that's what they've been
lacking
peta dxe doctor where all the
multi-million dollar
vegan organization all the things
they're doing but whatever we'll just
stay with paddock this is one example
vegan activism if you give them another
seven years
and another 100 million dollars do you
think then it'll be a success
do you think all that that's all they've
been waiting for that's all that's been
lacking
then i'm going to turn to the comment
section uh briefly here
yeah brendan williams comments one of
the blm leaders used millions to buy a
house for herself
and then step down what a joke well
brendan
one of the other questions is stepping
down from what
so my first video ever about blm there
is a playlist
i can give you guys go to the playlist
section of my channel and search for it
there is a playlist of all the videos
i've done about black lives matter
but one of the first videos was
criticizing
their constitution and talking about the
importance of having a constitutional
defendant now i'm just saying honestly
my more recent videos about black lives
matter are better than my earlier videos
they are just have improved with time
i do think my current critique of blm is
more meaningful than the initial regime
but at that stage there was at least one
website
with a constitution that defined the
movement and then they very quickly
stepped back from that they deleted that
constitution they never wrote another
one and who is in charge and who's
leading them and what are they trying to
do what are they trying to
uh what are they trying to accomplish
you know um
[Music]
yeah so i just say to say that she
stepped down
when was she ever a leader these were
very self-seeking people
who were selling t-shirts with their
brand name i've criticized that in
general there's all this money involved
and all this branding involved
and going around and giving interviews
and promoting your book you know book
tours whatever
the three women who were the founders
but when you say she stepped down from
my perspective she stepped down long ago
back when they deleted that back when
they deleted that constitution
because at least that stage when they
had a constitution there was some
notion that okay this is what the
movement supports this is what it
doesn't
like these tactics not these ones you
know their position on use of violence
or non-violence and protest there was
some definition
and when they gave that up i feel like
after that it's it's really just been
it's really just been a joke um
okay so someone in the audience uh cut
lou
sorry i have a heart i have a name
that's hard to pronounce too but anyway
cutlew in the audience
he's saying you're right atheism must be
a creative ideology and we are losing
you know do you preach to people about
atheism like you do about uh veganism
what is your rhetorical
approach on the on the topic so great
great question and i mean you know
i think the short answer is yes you know
um
but when you say preach i i talk to
people one-on-one in a way which is
which is meaningful for them
and yeah i idea so it's it's very
bespoke it's not that i have a
generalized approach
that's the same for everyone but i'd
also say i think atheism is another
great comparison here
so sorry i gave what i use abortion and
the anti-abortion movements
you know use these different parallels
but two more to throw in
well what about cigarette smoking and
what about atheism
right now again these may seem very
different but what i said at the
beginning of that long
rant i was like well look this ultimate
comes down to a person which comes down
to me it comes down to you come down
you're coming
i've got to do this for myself well you
got to quit smoking so you know
do you think disruption is going to make
people
quit smoking like this
great yeah great example so yeah we have
a huge number of drug addicts on the
street here we live in the pacific
northwest
do you think you could get out and
protest on the streets the same way
the vegans do stereotypical vegans like
direct action airport
oh that's great how about you use
anonymous for the voiceless tactics you
have people standing wearing a mask
silently holding a video screen to
protest against crack cocaine
you know but like do you think you can
fight against
opiate drug addiction or you know
stimulant organization or
methamphetamine addiction do you think
you could get rid of
drug addiction or cigarette smoking
through disruption
my answer is no but significantly my
answer is no that
won't work not even if you have just as
much support
as the anti-abortion movement which
vegans will never have
right and let's be honest blm will never
have it either blm got a ton of support
for a short time
but like long term does blm have the
kind of constituency money
behind it that anti-abortion i mean
these this is the big leagues this is in
the millions and millions of dollars
both of these
but you know the ability to run ad
campaigns and do high costs you know
things like anti-abortions and people
are religiously committed
the anti-abortion is a movement but it
fails
so you know no disruption will not
work you know in in ending cigarette
smoking
or ending cocaine addiction or ending
fentanyl addiction fentanyl is the big
opiate out here but you know now sorry
so turning to your question
uh you know what about
atheism you know is that the way to
accomplish
atheism to create an atheist society in
my opinion obviously not
now nobody does it nobody has the balls
right
disrupt santa claus right are you going
to show up at the shopping mall and
disrupt santa claus and say
no this is bad and evil and wrong stop
teaching kids to believe in santa claus
stop teaching everybody stop teaching
kids to believe in jesus
stop well no the biggest one
circumcision
yeah what are you going to do about
right so guys we have some more people
in the audience if you have a moment hit
the thumbs up button if you can because
it helps more people discover the video
it helps you know during the
during the live stream so if you've
forgotten hit thumbs up do so if you
change your mind later
you can you can hit thumbs down instead
you can actually undo a thumbs up
uh it's allowed so you can you can
change your mind better but it is it is
good to get get more people in the
audience and
like one of you um but yeah so i don't i
could easily make a separate video a
whole series of separate videos about
uh talking about 80s and people but guys
i know so on camera
i know i have a very passionate manner
of speaking
unlike in real life no in real life i'm
very passionate too but but in a
different way
and you know when i've talked about
atheism people you know
face to face when you're dealing with
people uh you know it is a much more
caring
and satovace uh communication
i remember there was a young woman
i she 24 maybe sorry i said young woman
but how young do you mean
and i remember she had been totally
raised in a
christian family and so on and she had
recently converted to a different
more fundamentalist christian group that
was based on just reading and just doing
what was in the bible now a lot of
people haven't read the bible i have
so i was able to you know confront her
with how absurd that is i was able to
say things so really something like oh
okay
you do animal sacrifice no
that's in the bible you know like you
know do you stone women
do you engage in slavery and sex slavery
so do you let your husband
i don't she wasn't married i don't
i remember her kind of sort of having a
crushing on a crush on me that girl
but maybe she was already married to i
forget but it was the dynamic it was
was a little bit flirty uh my my
relation with that particular one
you know okay you know so you know what
about circumcision
what about slavery what about animal
sacrifice but even just dealing with
animal sacrifice and to deal with that
seriously and say no
this this is what the religion's about
no you don't get to decide
you didn't write the bible okay don't
tell me
you believe in literal adherence to the
bible and practicing everywhere which is
what she told me that she'd converted
from some more mainstream christian
group to this
fundamentalist group which is based on a
rifle you know
and you know another one of the things i
talked to her about so again this is
very bespoke this is meaningful to the
particular person
she had the delusion that christianity
is the oldest religion in the world
you know it's not you know
and um you know and for someone like her
white person born and raised in canada
just to even get into talking about
the history of the world like oh you
know like have you heard of
china have you heard of india have you
heard of
buddhism like this could have a deeply
subversive
you know motivating effect in these ways
and you know it's
look sorry this is just one anecdote
about one conversation people
uh so look that's
that's reaching out to somebody
one-on-one and
you know taking these things seriously
and showing that you care about them
enough to offend them
you know i care about you enough to hurt
your feelings you know really talk to
you about
about what circumcision means even most
people don't talk about it you know
swept another carpet something
let's really deal with this you know man
the man or man the woman or a woman a
woman or
what whatever it may be me and
we say in chinese face to face you know
um okay but this brings us back to the
top of this video
right which is but how then do you
pursue
real cultural change how do you pursue
real
political change how do you scale it up
when we're no longer talking about
you know one-on-one interactions
right okay so i'm now going to return to
the question i got
uh from cranky vegan in the first place
which included the question or
it concluded with the question he said
to me i think in relatively powerful
words he said well how do you
in your own life how do you pursue this
or how do you live this
great question fortunately it takes more
than an hour to answer
and i said that to him at the time like
well do you want me to record a
monologue just for you
do you want me to write a book length
answer this question um
but look guys oh someone in the audience
says that he was
raised in a younger young earth
creationist conservative christian
household
so that is the most crazy form of
authentically american christianity
i mean whether or not it's as crazy as
forms of virginia you can find in europe
but that is that is very
very distinctively american so those
people they're obsessed with proving
that
darwin is a hoax and they're obsessed
with this company yeah
uh anyway and he he's uh moved on to
philosophy after something and buddhism
was helpful
so that is also significant i agree so
brendan
i agree like even though so i'm not a
buddhist and i don't preach buddhism
i think it is very interesting how
buddhism can challenge the
presuppositions of both
christians and muslims in a way that's
useful and creates a gap
for them to then kind of think of
themselves in question and leads them to
more
more atheist or more scientific or more
more human uh attitudes
okay guys so look i would describe my
life in relation to vegan activism in
three periods
and i'm going to start here with a
period in the middle okay
because the period in the middle was
when i pursued a career as a baker
so you know oh well how do you how are
you an activist
how do you pursue political social and
cultural change all right
and we're talking about me we're not
talking about the leader of the haitian
revolution
we're not talking about what you would
do in china in 1949 or something right
we're just talking about me all right
so i'm a middle-aged man i have a
daughter
whom i never get to see in france right
i have my own situation in terms of
university education and career and the
need to earn money and
relative poverty and what have you i've
got different considerations
right and this is the middle period this
is my first grade it wasn't my first
idea for vegan activism to go out and
and we're going to be
like okay i can take this on i can
enroll in classes i can learn how to
bake
again there's a lot of personal lists i
can wake up every morning at 4 00 a.m
baking is an early morning activity and
walk in the cold and i can bake this
bread
and make vegan croissants and make vegan
birthday cakes
and i can do this and this can be the
cornerstone of my vegan activism right
okay so if you guys don't know this
already was it fifty thousand dollars to
tuition
it was something like that oh really oh
wow it shows how my memory works
yeah you're right you're right you're
right you're right so i just asked most
of how much was the tuition you know
what i was probably remembering both of
our tuitions added together or something
okay and was that us dollars again it
doesn't matter really but okay
anyway so so we
paid 12 000 canadian
each to learn how to bake bread learn
how to learn how to be bakers in general
so that's
24 000 so it was a huge commitment
it was a huge decision and i presumed it
was going to change
the rest of my life now you can watch
the youtube videos you made about it
long story short it didn't work out
why because everyone hates vegans that's
it they're basically
much more powerfully than you could say
there was prejudice against you as a
black person
in this university in in the year 2021
i'm aware just a few decades ago there
was really intense predators you know
today
there may be there may be some mild
racism and prejudices against you as a
black person
in the university of america totally get
that however they will not just walk up
to you and tell you we're kicking you
out because you're black well guess what
we got told we're being kicked out
because we're vegan okay
this is you know in the 21st century
this was
intense hatred and discomfort with the
fact that we were vegan and they
promised us we talked to them about it
before
the the guy in charge reassured us that
would be fine for us as vegans and it
turned out it wasn't fine
okay but look this is just illustrating
for those who don't have the background
on that
you know i had to come up with answers
to the question of
how am i going to be a vegan activist
how am i going to pursue political
association and that was what was
possible
for me and it's humbling humiliating
work in a lot of ways and i literally
wept over it
i mean you know i remember weeping
talking to melissa saying
i put so many years into studying
buddhist philosophy learning the pali
language
and by the way i didn't just learn pali
i learned to read and write classical
literary cina leaves read
classical literary burmese thai laotian
cambodian like there was so much
language work so much erudition
so i built myself up as a scholar of
buddhism for years i did years working
on korean and ojibwe as languages and
political traditions i did
all this work on language and philosophy
under so many headings and i
studied chinese i studied japanese like
okay i've got
all this depth of of expertise and i
mean
you know at one point i had to try to
justify becoming a
an intelligence officer in the military
you know i applied to do intelligence
work
for the military and as as humbling as
that is
you're like well i would be taking my
expertise about world politics world
history and even some of these languages
and i'd be applying it i'd be doing
intelligence work for the canadian
government for the canadian military
and probably exactly my expertise with
china cambodia thailand my
mexican politics it would be used to
some extent you gotta talk yourself into
it because it's also pretty horrible to
join the army
and do do that kind of work anyway
joining the army also didn't work out
but my point is
it was heartbreaking to make the
decision to say okay i'm going to take
all this education and all this area
edition
and by the way also like my past plans i
was planning to open a publishing house
shout out to my ex-wife if she's
watching this but you know back when i
was
married to my first wife all the time we
were talking about book publishing
you know and different plans and schemes
just to get into publishing and
you know i mean i just say it was
something i wasn't just a writer i was
an editor and
you know there were other ideas of my
my scholarly life that was to come and
what my life was going to be like when i
was 60 years old
right that's still something when we
talk about studying chinese and how high
a priority in my life learning chinese
should be one of the things that what is
my life going to be like when i'm
when i'm in my 60s you know how am i
going to be living with
this scholarship okay so it's not
my lifestyle choices okay i'm gonna put
all that aside
and i'm gonna commit to waking up at
four o'clock in the morning and
mixing dough in the dough mixer doing
what's really essentially factory labor
most of there is some creativity
involved when you design the product you
know there is there is
but day in and day out it is
cleaning the machines most of your work
is cleaning the machines afterwards
combining the ingredients pulling the
crank on the machine i mean it is
factory labor plus a lot of cleaning
because it's a factory that has to be
at food grade levels of cleanliness and
safety
right you know that's what you're
committing to do for the rest of your
life
why for veganism it's not for money
right it was for
for vegan activism to be to be part of
our lives right
and it didn't work out so i would say
there were three periods for me and how
i answered this question for how i'm
going to pursue
political assertion and there was a
period before that
which is maybe the more entertaining
period on the channel where i was really
reaching out to
anyone and everyone positively
now in political terms you could say i
was trying to
lead a mass movement but it was a very
tiny
mass movement and why so why do i say
mass movement when you talk about a
small number of people
because pardon me apart in england they
use the term a big
tent movement they actually also use the
term big tent church
anyway the point is when you talk about
a mass movement or a big tent movement
the point is anyone can join anyone can
sign up and i'm reaching out to people
all the time and talking to them over
skype i never owned the telephone in
those years it was always skype
but you know having voice calls and
having emails and talking to people and
saying i want you
you know i'm recruiting i want you to
join i want to do this what can we do
together
and all those conversations always ended
with me asking them
where do you want to be five years from
now what do you want to have
accomplished as well what do you want to
have organized
i don't think a single person had an
answer to that question
just people sue hundreds of people right
and of course indirectly like
through medium like through this kind of
media like you know uh youtube videos it
was
millions of people right but in terms of
direct face-to-face
conversations like directly talking to
people email and skype
there's hundreds of people right and i'm
saying yes let's get it organized yes
let's do a conference yes let's do this
let's just do this
let's incorporate a new party let's
incorporate a new lobby let's make
something up let's you know
i'm getting out there with this creative
ideas and i'm saying who's with me
right
five years went by and none of those
people accomplished anything
none of them right most of them
went back to eating meat they stopped
being vegan all right
shout out to jason posino holy [ __ ]
shout out to bonnie rebecca shout out to
everyone else right
i mean what i found was okay two things
some people if you're new here some
people might say well
your mistake was you were reaching out
to social media
influencers like people who have youtube
channels or this kind of thing
and and that i wasn't reaching out to
the respectable
academic people with phds or the kind of
uh
respectable career activists
okay and you're wrong i reached out to
everyone
during those years and let me tell you
something the so-called respectable
people they were the worst they are the
worst people in the movement
the people on social media are the best
i mean that 100 sincerely 100
just you know the sincerity
and presence of mind and commitment
and the risk of your own face and
identity that's involved in coming here
on camera and saying this is why i'm a
vegan
you know this is what i care about this
is what i'm trying to accomplish
that litmus test you might think that's
a really low barrier to enter to jump
but it's not and the people with phds
would never get over that
they're the worst people in this game
they are the worst people in the vegan
activist game
and uh yeah i did i appreciate all those
people and i talked to those people as
much as i could
and most of them were afraid to talk to
me
so shout out to casey taft and if you
want to sign hilarious
you can search this youtube channel for
my my critique of the book of casey taft
and then there is a video i think it's
not quite as easy to find which is me
responding to casey taft sending me hate
mail
you know this is a guy with a phd in a
publishing house by the way who's
published books and this publishes
supposedly respectable
erudite academic books that are complete
horseshit on how vegan activism is
supposed to work
and i gave up completely i read the book
and i gave a critique in analysis of
what's wrong with this book this guy
sent me the most
teenaged hate mail imaginable i can't
believe you would put them those people
were really too okay so yeah there was
an
earlier period of time and i know it was
more entertaining for the audience right
because i would come on with this energy
and even if i was
angry it was uplifting angry energy
because i was saying to people hey
we can do better than this we can do
better than freely
we can do better than tyrion ryder we
can do better than peta people with
ethical treatments we can do better
than direct action everywhere they're
idiots but we're not idiots we don't
have to be idiots we don't have to
repeat repeat the mistakes of the past
you know we're in this together let's do
it there was
that energy so the manifesto from that
period of time
was my video uh on community so i think
there's even a playlist for that
but if you don't know that video that
period of this more
positive mass movement energy on my
channel where that was what i was trying
to do
is uh so on community and that video
inspired people to translate into many
many languages
so here uh i don't even this is slovenia
wow man there you go so they are one of
the one of the least watched versions so
there's the slovenian translation i
speak in english but the subtitles
in slovenian here we have the greek
translation
uh we've got a whole sequence here as
they're they'll have pretty decent
numbers of views too
just just saying um
well i'm getting all the obscure
languages here danish
danish translation okay so just say
regardless of what
so it's titled something like on
community a manifesto you know
and um you know that was
that was the manifesto for that period
of my youtube channel
and again it had a lot of positive
energy because it was recruiting anyone
and everyone speaking of which guys
sorry we have more people in the
audience this is how it happens when
people do thumbs up
if you have a second hit the thumbs up
button because it helps more people
discover the video it makes the video
visible
rather than invisible as a positive
effect i'm not just for the channel
really as possible for this video right
now it means
youtube will notify more people that i'm
live streaming and admittedly this is a
completely spontaneous live stream
nobody got advanced warning
so i'm happy if you happen to be washing
dishes you have to be at home
at the time of livestreaming this it's
wonderful to have an audience this large
when you do something with absolutely no
no preparation okay so i just say
that there was this earlier period of
optimism
and of approaching this as a mass
movement and what that
proved to me again and again and again
you know is that talent is scarce
and you know guys you know not
everyone's an idiot not everyone's a bad
person i did get a lot of flattering
email in that time and i remember people
writing to me remember this phrasing
coming up again again he said i remember
people running to me and saying why
won't you realize
that the type of vegan leader you are
describing
is you and it's only you like there's
nobody else to look through for
leadership
like why don't you stop criticizing
other leaders of the vegan movement and
why don't you
take on this role because you're the
only one who can do it
so i no okay no it wasn't 100 people who
said that to me
maybe it was 10 people or 12 people you
know what i mean but it was memorable to
me that the same
kind of phrasing came up repeatedly
because people were they were responding
to the fact that i had this
positive uplifting thing of saying look
let's let's make something happen guys
and i was trying to make it happen
democratically i wasn't trying to do it
all my way like i was talking about
saying okay guys let's have a conference
well here's my idea for a conference
what do you guys i was trying to get
people to collaborate and work together
and no um to say that talent is scarce
is an understatement and one of my one
of my videos and really the title just
says it all
was that i do not want to be a one-man
movement so this is part of the breaking
point
oh yeah so this is really one of the one
of the crucial videos to see and it's
only 11 minutes long
so that is short that is a concise
uh summation i don't think it tells the
whole story
it's concise but incomplete probably but
in 11 minutes
you know it talks about the end of that
period of optimism
in retrospect right and i have made a
video talking about this so this
guy's i know most of you were not here
at the beginning of this video but i
began by talking about elitism
kind of elitism versus populism they
have a mass movement as opposed to a
self-consciously
elitist movement and i switched to
having a view of the world where i said
look
we have to acknowledge the scarcity of
talent
first and foremost the scarcity of
positively motivated and capable people
as the primary problem
you know first and foremost and we have
to deal with that first
so like even the recruiting is misguided
right and you can tell even this video
i'm not trying to recruit any people you
know
it's like guess what whether i like it
or not
i am one of incredibly few people who
can
do anything with or for the movement and
i don't even know one other
i don't have a group of five i don't
have a group of ten i know of 20.
so you did this recruitment phase for
like five years
right and i reached millions of viewers
you know i'm just saying i reached a
huge number of years
it was very successful just considered
as a social media phenomenon
right and a lot of people were deeply
influenced by and moved by videos that
talked about
i have talked about every aspect and
every facet of the vegan movement and
vegan politics
philosophy and you know all kinds of
really
really specific issues about dog
ownership and
having uh carnivore pets and i mean all
kinds
and palm oil and deforestation
and recycling and climate change
a million issues from a million
different angles
have been talked about and guess what at
the end of that process
i'm all alone and i don't want to be a
one-man movement
and there's no way for me to move
forward
you know by running a bakery by baking
bread
so guess what i have no choice i've got
to be voltaire the only way
for me to make a difference is as a
completely
isolated creative individual which is
what i
am i can be a filmmaker
i can be a stand-up comedian i can be a
novelist
i can write books right that is the only
power
i've got that is the only choice left
open to me
okay voltaire
these really are the weapons of the weak
and yet voltaire
profoundly changed the world in the way
that protesters carrying placards
never would never could never will right
and now i've said recently in other
videos a very different context
okay my failure is better than your
success
right so i don't mean you in the
audience right but this kind of
contrast i think it is worthwhile to
point out
that like the failure of this youtube
channel
is more meaningful is more important
than the success
of pro veg international multi-million
dollar
budget right i mean that seriously i
think the failure of this channel
is more important than many
multi-million dollar success stories in
veganism
and i think it really has profoundly
touched and profoundly influenced
people's lives
including people who hate my guts guess
what guys
aaron janus was profoundly influenced by
this channel
aaron janus is more famous than me she's
more successful than me guess what
my failure matters more success across
the board
right including durianrider including uh
joey carbstrong including all
kinds of you know frankly [ __ ] for
brains people
you know they ain't got no brains well i
got enough brains to share you know
there's a role
for being a creative intellectual in
this movement and it's not my first
choice and it's not my second choice but
i have to look at the
road ahead in terms of being a creative
artist a creative author period
because that's the only option i've got
left
[Laughter]
okay i'm tempted to hit hit the stop
button and uh
and call it a wrap by the way thanks
very much guys for the thumbs up that's
a wonderful thumbs up account you know
you've
you've given me um
but i only answered part of the original
question so you know maybe there is a
more theoretical thing if you guys have
any questions
i'm pausing i'm going to drink some
water if you want to ask a question
now's the time to ask it's your your
last chance for this for this live
stream
just something you particularly wanted
to go
um theory of change talked a lot about
the practice of change
so let's talk about let's talk about the
theory of change and we've talked a lot
about
narrowing down this very broad and
nebulous sphere
of change to the personal in particular
of what change can i make in my
circumstances culturally politically
et cetera um
ultimately the change we're talking
about is legal period right
ultimately there's going to be a law but
there's going to be a rewriting of the
constitution
period that's the changing one now i'm
saying this about veganism
i would say the exact same thing about
police brutality police
about reforming the justice system
because not just the police the police
the courts the prisons
okay that reform must be
legal okay what happened
when a group of board housewives
led a grassroots democratic movement to
change the american constitution
to make alcohol illegal
did it work the problem is
they accomplished the legal change first
and the cultural change was left to lag
behind the culture change hasn't
happened yet
right now let me ask you another
question this is maybe more challenging
okay for the gay rights movement
what if gay marriage gay rights gay
equality in the workplace
what if that had been accomplished
legally
in 1948
when america was intensely culturally
homophobic
right but you say well you know world
war ii was over
like people could have just learned the
lesson from looking at the nazis right
like well the nazis persecuted and
punished people for being homosexual
we don't want to be like the nazis like
you know really it doesn't doesn't take
a genius
to look at what just happened in world
war two with the nazis and say okay
let's do the opposite
let's actually give gay people civil
rights right to get married like you
know a law that makes it illegal to fire
someone just because they're gay and
this kind of
people have the right to be open like
okay you could also by the way be
pro-gay just because you've read a lot
of stuff from ancient greece in rome i
just mentioned your
classical literature is very pro-gay
gets forgotten about
to a fault i might say you know
um even aristotle was kind of freaked
out by that
you know aristotle dealing with the
level of homosexuality in athens as
opposed to his hometown where i grew up
in the north of greece it's like oh
there's a gay thing it's really
fashionable in athens so look there are
different routes it was possible you
could have had
you know legislation to make
homosexuality legal and normal that now
obviously there's a sense in which we'd
say it is good
i think most people in this audience
would say that
prohibition is good like in principle oh
gee making alcohol illegal
okay so william mcgeegan says simply
prohibition happened
um
okay prohibition happened but it failed
right if you want to create
a culture of sobriety if you want to
create a culture that values doing the
right thing because the right thing to
do and that sees this
as the right thing to do right that's a
huge cultural challenge you have to
pursue cultural change
social change and the question is when
does the legal change come in right do
you want to have the legal change first
and then wait for society to catch up
with it or do you want to have the
cultural change first
and then for you as a relatively
powerless individual
even if you're a multi-millionaire i
mean some of my fans are wealthy people
and i mention some fans who write to me
and say hey look
if you need me to donate for a project
you know let me know because they write
in saying they're wealthy and
they'll support something if i want to
do it even if you are a wealthy
person you are powerless when standing
up against
the culture of homophobia like what can
you do even if you have millions of
dollars
what can i do to change the world when
the whole institution everything in
society is homophobic when everything in
society is racist and you know if we're
talking about 1948
everything is homophobic everything in
society is racist
what do you do you are powerless
standing up against the society
where everyone drinks alcohol and
everyone in
regards alcohol not just as fun and
entertaining they even regarded it as
healthy
you know i mean they really didn't
regard this as a health problem
in the way that we do today so you can't
make
alcohol illegal at that stage right
gay rights went through many phases and
you know it is an imposition it was hard
for people to cope with it's not
easy wasn't easy for the catholic school
board
to have to employ openly gay people as
equals you know
i'm not i'm not saying it's easy and
i've mentioned this example before but i
do think it is a real turning point
there was a comedy on american
television called
soap that's the title s-o-a-p soap
there's a comedy on american television
that was the first tv show
to have an openly gay character an
openly gay protagonist
and they made a lot of jokes about it i
mean you know he was the butt of jokes
and sometimes he won and sometimes he
lost injuries the point was not to
ridicule
or vilify homosexuals but at that time
just having a gay character in a comedy
on television making jokes about being
gay
and he's not in the closet or something
it's not that he's not just an
effeminate
character or something and talking about
homosexuality so there's this big
turning point for the culture right
of course you know there are there are
differences right
everybody knows somebody
who died in a drunk driving accident
everybody knows somebody who's an
alcoholic
everybody knows somebody who's gay even
if they're not aware
that they know somebody who's gay you
might be kidding yourself about one of
your co-workers or one of your
professors or one of your uncles or
your best friend even okay homosexual
there are enough
people around who are gay to bring this
effort before depending on where you
live
everybody knows somebody who is black if
we're going to talk about the progress
the civil rights movement
it is just not the case that everybody
knows somebody
who is vegan right it is not
the case that people can perceive the uh
the harm done you know by eating mead or
they could receive the benefit
to all society presented and offered by
veganism they can't see the ecological
argument
they can't see the ethical argument
right i mean again sorry talking about
civil rights or black people
it's very obvious you say hey look this
whole society is going to be transformed
radically as soon as we give
equal rights to black people hey this
whole society is going to be
transformatively when we give equal
rights to homosexual people
that's obvious that's impossible to
ignore
veganism is very easy to ignore
so you know that is the ultimate
conclusion here
is that we are at a stage where veganism
is an invisible cause
it is a despised cause and talent is
incredibly scarce and the way forward
as i described the start of this video
ultimately is going to be
and has to be elitism um
so one of the turning points i went to a
conference for vegans in toronto don't
worry i'm only a few more minutes to say
we're just wrapping up the video guys
i'm seeing your comments come in you
know
um yes so somebody united says that he's
18 he or she is 18
and is seen as a nutcase for not during
alcohol yeah i know
that so when i when i stopped drinking
when i
when i completely stopped drinking and
doing drugs of any kind i
i you know i lost all my entire friend
group i mean the entire network of
people i'd known
you know i was cut off from everything
in canada and melissa is nodding her
head and saying she had a
similar experience yeah yeah so you know
compulsory drinking
oh yeah and family well yeah
so melissa is just saying that she's
seen as a free kid family events the
level of ostracism
for supporting sobriety so i'm just
mentioning i'm just being blunt here in
case it wasn't
before i would support making alcohol
illegal
in theory right but the question if you
make alcohol illegal in 2021
right it could be much more of a failure
than it was the last time you made
alcohol illegal right now you know again
i'm not in a position to say morally
oh well it sure is a good thing we
delayed gay rights until people accepted
it no
it's terrible it was a terrible day in
theory it would be wonderful to make
veganism legally mandatory in 2021 but
obviously that would result in a kind of
level of subversion of the law a kind of
uh
you know de-institutionalization of a
huge part of the economy the black
market would become
larger than the legal market you know um
that would that would that would fail to
an unbelievable extent
so i mean i just say we're still
whatever we're not yet on the
100th anniversary of prohibition but i
will say this i will foretell the future
when we come to
the 100th anniversary of prohibition we
will be no closer
to having an alcohol-free society than
we were before
when we come to the 100th anniversary of
the founding of the vegan society
will be no close and that is in part
because of things i've just talked about
for more than an hour
that we're using the wrong tactics uh so
on and so forth
yeah anyway we have lots of people
talking about
how memorable uh the tv show soap was
i'm sure you can see it for for free on
youtube now
i don't know on youtube on netflix so i
don't know if you want if you want to
look up that show
billy crystal played the gay character
so an actor went on to be tremendous
not not gay he's heterosexual but he was
he was playing the the gay role yeah
okay so this is the puzzle we're looking
at
and it has only three pieces right so
we're talking about
legal change cultural change and
political change right and the question
is now
you know how do you get there now i want
to say
if you have 20 people who can work
together
20 people who have good intentions like
they're not just doing this because they
want to get famous on instagram or
youtube or something
if you have 20 people you are in the
most privileged category of vegans in
the world
right like just to have 20 people
organized and well-intentioned
that's amazing i don't know anyone who's
got 20 people right
talent is scarce you know and for each
of those people when you're talking
about talented hard-working people
they're already busy they've already got
jobs they've got careers they've got
things to do
they've got better things to do and
contribute their time to your to your
tier vegan movement right so then we get
into a very different
sort of question given the scarcity
given the hopelessness
at this point of any kind of
political change any kind of legal
change
right that leaves cultural change right
so
get a good question here someone writes
in uh constantia writes in
so should we focus on trying to make
change through the law organizing
politically etc
so the problem with your question
constantia
is that you assume there are people
to organize
what do you mean we should raise what we
i've been doing this for seven years
eight years now
there is no we none i don't i don't know
one vegan in the city of victoria i can
meet for lunch i can organize anything
with
all right not one and this is the
capital city
of this province when i went to taiwan i
tried through every method
not just social media not just facebook
i did everything i could to meet up and
collaborate with vegan activists
in taiwan and i spoke chinese i could
speak read and write chinese
so i could write to these vegan groups
in chinese on facebook saying hey
i'm a vegan activist this is my youtube
channel i'm now living in taiwan i want
to meet with
vegan activist groups i want to know
what you guys are doing like i'd love to
interview for the channel i want to get
involved i want
i never met one vegan activist
the whole time i was in taiwan and i
didn't just do it through facebook
for example i went to restaurants i went
to restaurants with a friend of mine who
speaks chinese as the first language
so you know i could speak chinese but
obviously i'm not completely fluent like
i'm very far from blue island
but he was speaking chinese perfectly to
them and explaining oh you know this
guy's a vegan activist he has a youtube
channel he's trying to meet these kind
of people
never met one we went to athens greece
what did we meet one vegan activist one
vegan person
in athens not one we've traveled paris
of randomly on the street we met one
vegan activist in paris there was one
vegan remember her
chinese or vietnamese woman i forget
what yeah there was one person who was
like oh wow you're famous i know
there's one person who like recognized
me on the street and she basically never
talked to his gamblers okay
but you know like no and we were that
was back in my recruitment phase that
was i was saying oh great let's make
something happen then
let's do so let's really do something
positive you know
um everywhere i've gone and guys i gave
advanced warning before we went to these
places on youtube i remember making
videos saying hey guys
we're going to be in paris we're going
to be in this city we're going to be in
this city
if there's anyone you know if there's
anyone doing anything so i've been
reaching out
for years okay sorry not four years
four years seven years eight years
whatever it's been
we're gonna be coming okay there is no
other talent
i am alone as i said in the title of
that video
why i quit veganism colin i don't want
to be a one-man movement
okay and i am it's just
me all right i have no colleagues
i have no contemporaries there is nobody
i can
invite to a conference there's nobody i
can even do a skype call with
okay and if you argue back what about
joey carbstrong i've spoken to joey
karps i know all these people to say i'm
six degrees of separation as it grows
i'm like one degree of separation
two degrees of separation as well i've
talked to or communicated with directly
or indirectly
all the leaders and everything going on
in the vegan move including phoebe
frampton and [ __ ] england and [ __ ]
like including more obscure
leaders in the vegan movement all right
they know me okay uh uh
gary francione knows me and knows my
work i would be amazed if gary yourofsky
doesn't
shout it to detroit melissa's from
detroit right uh who's that doctor in
detroit uh
joel kahn yeah yeah melissa benefits
i've talked to him by email you know
okay okay
okay what do you mean should we get
organized
for legal change do you think we have
the numbers that mothers against drunk
driving have
we don't it's taking it all the way back
to my original
video right do you think we have the
numbers do you think we have the the
support
morally financially in terms of no no
and again
everybody knows someone who's died in a
car accident everyone knows a tragedy
connected to drunk driving that's the
fundamental impetus
behind mothers against drunk driving
people you know you reach out and you
you know you harness
that discontent you harness that descent
and say look let's get organized let's
let's lobby government
to have stricter laws against drunk
driving and they did and they won and
they changed the world
mothers against drunk driving change
every day when i took the bus to school
there were posters up from mother's door
driving campaigns against strong driving
completely
surrounded me growing up was a huge
movement for for my generation yeah
it's even even more surreal given that
how many people know somebody who are
who is affected by the diseases
oh of course
right so sorry just in case you guys can
hear melissa was just saying that in the
same sense that
everyone knows somebody died in a car
accident you can also make an argument
that everybody knows somebody who died
of an illness caused by eating meat
eating dairy eating eggs which is true
but they don't see it that way so it's
invisible
ultimately yeah it's ultimately it's
irrelevant to the ethical argument
because either you're motivated to do
the right thing because either
or you're not you just have a low
cholesterol non-vegan diet or whatever
and people do their own thing
but look yeah but no i mean that's
that's uh i mean look everyone
everyone's everyone has seen an animal
slaughter you can put it that way too
but they don't care
they don't uh they don't feel
responsible so anyway there are some
there are some uh questions suggesting
particular people because i've alluded
to a bunch of people like gary yourofsky
gary francione you know name some people
joey carpenter
look guys turn around how do you think
joey carves strong feels about me
because i've i've talked to him enough i
think joey carbstrong is afraid of me
i think julie carve strong feels that
i'm smarter than him he asked me for
help on a couple issues
you know where he said look he wrote in
the guy i'm sorry if you've ever
committed him his style of writing is
very simplistic
but he pretty much wanted to be saying
hey you're smart you know about these
things can you tell me what should i say
about this issue
that was pretty much way but to me um
you know
i think people like joey carbstrong and
no we've spoken to aaron janus i'm
saying we because melissa was there
i know aaron janus pretty well at this
point
um people like joey carbstrong
people like aaron janis they are aware
that i know what i'm talking about in a
way that
nobody else in the movement does all
right they're aware
that i bring something to this in terms
of expertise and acumen
and perspective that's really valuable
and really rare and they don't have it
and they fear it right you know i think
fear is the right word i don't think
they hate me
i'm sorry we talked to aaron a couple
months ago i don't think aaron janus
hates me
i don't think joey carbstrong hates me i
don't think
you know really really i don't think
paul beshear hates me to give another
example
he's a pretty awful guy but i know maybe
he doesn't hate me more than hates other
people
you know no but there is
fear and i just want to say this guys
back when i had the um
conflict with durianrider you will
notice you may have noticed
that um you know
non-vegans were much more appreciative
and positive towards me than
vegans like there were all these kind of
normal people
because of the size of that conversation
it was covered in some mainstream
newspapers and [ __ ] you know
there was this legal conflict and
freelee's career had suddenly imploded
it was freely
there was some kind of mainstream uh
recognition of this weird thing that
happened in thailand
uh so you know for a brief second it was
hundreds of thousands of people rather
than tens of thousands who were
interested
in what i was doing and saying like
normal people had nothing to do with
veganism look to this situation
understood to me but you talk about the
vegans
vegan insiders vegans like
joe best vegans like
a vegan foot soldier these are the names
of youtube channels you don't know
vegans like joe vegan you know
people who were close to people that
direct email correspondence people who
spoke to me on skype and [ __ ] like
people would directly
communicate with me you know and they
could they could verify all the facts
like if they wanted to see receipts if
they want to see proof of things
those people all immediately got
committed to vilifying me
trying to ostracize me trying to
because they were afraid of me because i
was the only type that
you knew what he was talking about and
it was the only guy in the movement
asking a question so simple and so
fundamental as what are you
doing five years from now okay okay so
what
let's talk about the future of the vegan
movement let's talk about me and you
and let's talk about the next five years
and let's come up with a plan
and again for this huge phase in this
channel i brought in all that positive
energy
and when it was clear that that was
gonna come to nothing that i
was totally alone phase two plan b was
okay
i'm gonna go back to school i'm gonna
get a degree from college a baking
college i'm gonna learn how to bake
bread and i'm gonna open my own bakery
because that's something i can do alone
so that doesn't rely on anyone but me
which would have been a horrible life
for me a lot of ways by the way right
and now phase three is okay that failed
that proved to be impossible
and now i've really got a ship it has
been a shift and melissa i don't know if
you you you pick up on it
so let me say this now i've shifted
phase three is shifting to thinking of
myself as a creative artist
thinking myself as a creative writer
like voltaire and also like a stand-up
comedian
however much of her little comedy but
it's voltaire also was partly a comedian
just mentioned but thinking okay that's
what i have to do whether it's as a
filmmaker or as a youtuber
whatever i do with it before i got with
melissa
i thought of myself as a researcher i
thought of myself as someone who's
committed to non-fiction
you know and like this youtube thing was
this sideshow but what i did was read
one of the essays melissa read when she
was falling in love with me
was this hard-hitting research piece
about a war that took place in 1920
involving china and japan and russia
and the russian communists massacre
everybody it's this very dramatic
chapter of the world's history
that was the kind of work i was doing
it's like oh i'm
i'm a researcher i'm a researcher and i
just
also i'm kind of you know getting
involved in vegan activism
and i saw myself as someone who had this
you know at that time direct action
everywhere was declaring the importance
of social science research oh well i
actually am a social science teacher i'm
a researcher comes out of the social
sciences
you know i thought of myself as someone
who did research
all right but you have to do research
with people you have to do research
about people
you have to do research for people and
also
research normally does depend on an
institutional contact institutional
support
and it became very clear as the years
went by that i would have absolutely
none of that
so i've had to make a very difficult
transition from thinking of myself as a
researcher
to thinking of myself as a creative
artist and
however much or however little i'm going
to accomplish
now as a creative artist it is very
clear in terms of my theory of change
in terms of the forces that force me now
to pursue cultural change i am going to
make that difference
working alone
how can we have a culture
of sobriety you know
how can we have a culture in which
people
are positively motivated to refuse
cocaine
to refuse fentanyl to refuse
marijuana to refuse alcohol right
to refuse antidepressants
i mean it's it's so great that the
antidepressants don't work
but what happens if one day they invent
an antidepressant that does work that's
going to be even more of an epidemic you
know what i mean
um how can you create a culture
that really mo that really is motivated
to be sober that really
positively values sobriety right
the easy answer everyone reaches for is
the legal answer is legislation right
what's last they put for oh
make it illegal right
the real question the real challenge the
real struggle is cultural there
right and once you achieve that cultural
change the same way we first achieved a
cultural change in how we
view gay people right the attitudes
towards homosexuality the homophobia had
to change culturally
and then you have a change legally that
cements it that makes it
obligatory like oh yeah it's not just
that homophobia is bad
it's also illegal okay so you know
that's that's the way that
change happened you need to look at
in an artistic and creative way bringing
about this kind of
social change and our attitudes towards
drugs or attitudes towards
sobriety our attitudes towards the the
meaning of life our attitudes towards
what it means to be a man and what it
means to be a woman
and how to choose the person you're
gonna you're gonna marry you know what i
mean
um and you know
i think if you are all alone if you
don't have a multi-million dollar per
year budget
if you're not leading an army you have
to look at doing that
with the same utensils used all those
centuries ago
by a figure like voltaire